For Directories
Ctrl + Alt + T	-splits dir
Ctrl+h		-to show the hidden files.
sudo dpkg -i package name.deb   -can be useful to install .deb files.



For terminal
Ctrl+A		-Jump to the beginning of the command line.
Ctrl+E		-Jump to the end of the command line.
Ctrl+U		-Clear from the cursor to the beginning of the command line.
Ctrl+K		-Clear from the cursor to the end of the command line.
Ctrl+LeftArrow	-Jump to the beginning of the previous word on the command line.
Ctrl+RightArrow	-Jump to the end of the next word on the command line.
Ctrl+R		-Search the history list of commands for a pattern.
xdg-open	-you know to open gui mode of file manager.
cmd1 ; cmd2	-cmd1 output cmd2 output.
passwd		-to change the password.
rm -r		-to delete dir with contents.
file (location)	-specifies file type.
wc		-to print all data.
wc -l -w -c	-counts lines(-l), words(-w), and characters(-c) in a file.
history		-summary of the commands you have used till now in the terminal till date.
ls /usr
^usr^tmp	-it tells that replace usr with tmp.
!!		-repeat the previous cmd.
Esc .		-prints previous cmd in your terminal.
ctrl+r		-reverse search mode.
whereis file	-will print exact location of the file.
env 		-to check which are all declared variables in the system.
unset		-to clear the set variable.


/usr/bin/nano ~/.bashrc	-If somehow you entered wrong path and any of the cmds don't work the this will come handy which i the absolute locations of files you need to edit.
man usage guide
man -k cmd	-checks and gives section wise result for the cmds.
man -K cmd	-it will traverse through each man page of cmd recursively.
< 1 | 2 >	-if in man page the cmd is separated by pipe(|) then you can use either cmd '1' or cmd '2'.
[ ]		-the square indicates that the argument is optional
/find		-the find word will be highlighted throughout the man page.
N		-Repeat previous search forward in the man page.
Shift+N		-Repeat previous search backward in the man page.
export LESS = '-X'	-allows the man page to stay on terminal instead of clearing it on quit the page.(needs to set for every other terminal.
man 5 crontab	-to access different section of the man page specify the number first.
D		-Scroll forward one half-screen.
U		-Scroll backward one half-screen.
G		-Go to the start of the man page.
Shift+G		-Go to the end of the man page.


Speaking about the sections in man page it is more like a organized set of instructions or cmds according to the user or privilege level.

Section		Content type							Description
1		User commands						Both executable and shell programs(normal user cmd)	
2		System calls						Kernel routines that are invoked from user space	
3		Library functions					Provided by program libraries				
4		Special files						Such as device files					
5		File formats						For many configuration files and structures			
6		Games and screensavers					Historical section for amusing programs			
7		Conventions, standards, and miscellaneous		Protocols and file systems				
8		System administration and privileged commands		Maintenance tasks (it contains mainly the admin level cmds and deamon cmds)
9		Linux kernel API					Internal kernel calls					

Heading				Description
NAME		Subject name, usually a command or file name, a brief description
SYNOPSIS	Summary of the command syntax
DESCRIPTION	Description to provide a basic understanding of the topic
OPTIONS		Explanation of the command execution options
EXAMPLES	Examples of how to use the command, function, or file
FILES		A list of files and directories that are related to the man page
SEE ALSO	Related information, normally other man page topics
BUGS		Known bugs in the software
AUTHOR		Information about who contributed to the development of the topic
